---
layout: post
title: Critique of Mimi Onuoha’s Point of Collection
---
Point of Collection is a concise article with well-curated examples that does well to persuade and educate the reader of its point, but leaves me still asking the question “now what?”

The article makes a few starting assumptions: that the reader knows about/cares about issues with big data but doesn’t necessarily care about data collection; it begins by saying that data collection is core to the “conceptual, practical, and ethical issues” related to data and big data. The rest of the article attempts to convince the reader that they should care about data collection with examples, and provides a framework for which to go about caring about data collection. 

I find the use of examples convincing; it lets the reader feel like they are coming to an informed opinion themselves, and establishes trust. Some examples (Spotify, Facebook) connect to everyday things the reader might encounter. In contrast, the hate crime statistics example was one that may or may not be close to the readers’ experience. The example underscored the huge variation in results based on different data collection and also makes a statement about inclusivity. From a personal standpoint as a potential audience member I find being more emphatic with emphasizing implications for equity and justice would have been more powerful. However, I could see the discussion about ethics overshadowing the actionable techniques of data collection, which would lengthen, and perhaps dilute the point of the article. 

The article asks the reader to consider the questions but does not necessarily give them the tools to do so. It provides the reader a first step, but doesn’t give much direction for them going forward. I had unanswered questions that distracted me from the piece such as how to evaluate means of collection and how much categorization/(over)fitting is “safe” and how might we anticipate the consequences. I find this less compelling personally because it gives me a sense of satisfaction that I know something and then when I try to apply it, I don’t know where to go. I’d like a little direction: maybe some examples (or even linked references) should be exemplars.
