# Project 3 Plans

I've been working on thinking about and writing about related to cyborg, cyborg identity, and disability.

I'm starting from understanding how the concept of the cyborg (in popular culture, and through Donna Haraway's Cyborg Manifesto) has influenced the perception of bodies and disability and the current reality for many where technology and body are quite fused. In A Cyborg Manifesto, Haraway constructs a “political myth”, using the metaphor of the cyborg to construct a different mode of feminism in which the cyborg breaks boundaries, one that embraces affinity politics rather than identity politics. It is precisely this metaphor- and the fact that this metaphor is used by the able-bodied Haraway and wielded by other able-bodied, powerful, usually white people (see Elon Musk's use of cyborg) that removes people with disabilities (some of whom are living far more cyborg lives than people who think of their phones as extensions of themselves!). 
There's also a similiar, related thing about anthropomorphization and humanization of tech (nuclear *arms*, war*heads*) and dehumanziation of people (human resources) as something we're always doing.

This leads me to two zine ideas that are both double-sided.

The first talks about representation of wheelchairs and people using them in videogames. The first side has a bit speaking to my personal experience with this. The second side shows examples of the wheelchairs that appear in videogames (with and without people using them) and delves into what these representations reflect. 

The second is a series of illustrations. One side is illustrated examples of terms for technology that are humanized. The other is the opposite. 
