---
layout: post
title: A Response to Michael Mohammed Ahmad's Bad Writer
---
>(boring summary)

>In his essay *Bad Writer*, Ahmad tells us what bad writing is: writing that is "so unremarkable that it could have been written by anyone at any time." He recounts for us examples of bad writing that he has encountered, which tend to suffer from the same sorts of issues. The bad writers come from a variety of backgrounds and experiences and the ways in which they respond to or justify their writing differ wildly. Ahmad emphasizes in these examples that good writing skills can be taught and learned, so long as the writer is receptive and recognizes writing not as a talent, but as a skill.

## What I feel reading this essay

### Discomfort
Like Ahmad suspected, the essay was a little uncomfortable for me to read. The discomfort was from two sources:
1. recognizing that I don't do much writing, and that a lot of it is bad
2. the stories were vivid enough to give me strong secondhand embarrassment in both cases where I have made similar writing errors (or refused to learn) and in cases where I had not


### Delight
But it was enjoyable for precisely that vivid, highly specific description that allowed me to enter the setting he described! I was able to forge little connections to the characters based on things that were familiar to me—that bit where he describes Tanika as strutting out of the room "like the Queen of Sheba" is a phrase that I have heard my parents and grandparents use (but never someone in my generation).

I read this essay while lying down on a couch in the lounge in my dorm. About three-quarters of the way through, I couldn't deal with reading it in silence anymore. I sat up and read a few of the stories aloud to Audrey, who was also sprawled out on a couch, and Justin, who was sitting in an armchair working. Both of these people (who just so happened to be in the room at the time) do quite a bit more writing outside of classwork than I do, and I was curious what they would think about the little windows into Writing Workshops from Hell (Western Sydney/Everywhere). I'll be the first to admit that it wasn't entirely just to share the fun—I also wanted to offload some of the discomfort.


## What to do about it (note to self)
Step 1 appears to be recognition. The vast majority of what I write (that isn't some sort of technical specification or documentation) is bad writing. I should work on this.  
Even in engineering work, I've been encouraged to avoid forms of this 'universal man'/'universal place' nonsense.
In a few of Allen Downey's classes, he asked us to consider what we were saying when we wrote in the third person and removed our role in the experiment (later, reading Latour's *Laboratory Life*, it was clear why this would be such a strongly embedded part of lab culture). He had us write blog posts that were certainly not particularly personal, but at least did not attempt to claim no connection to human action in the experiment process.

I know that context and being clear about my connection to what I am doing is important. Despite that, I haven't invested the time in applying that knowledge to actually hone the craft of my own writing and speech. That's something I can change.
