---
layout: post
title: Thoughts about the Internet
---

Note: I may have written a bit much, and although a lot of this is sparked by the readings (and the discussion in class!), I’m not explaining here how the readings got me to these ideas as it is already pretty lengthy. My brain is working in the ideas/questioning  stage where there’s a lot of quantity and I’m not quite able to narrow down/make things concise yet. There’s a lot of asking question after question happening right now.


The idea that ever-improving advertising is what fuels the success of the startup with no revenue model is something that I had never named or considered the effects of. I’m really interested in examining the implications of this. I want to understand the profit and capitalist engines at work here in relation to the internet. I want to do something that helps me and others experience that in some concrete way. I’m interested in both the “presenting an alternative” model here or in the “doing something subversive” model.

## Some of the things I’m curious about and want to explore

### Network protocols, client/server protocols just conceptually
- I worked with protocols changing over the summer and watched my code break and then had to figure out what needed to be fixed: the protocol or my code. There’s something strange about the rules of communication changing and the chaos that ensues when it’s machines and programs, and I think there’s this sort of rich and charming metaphor there. If we define the internet as a network of computing machine nodes where each node connects to some tree of people with vertices 0 to some finite number (shared/public) computers, and then have a communication protocol not only for the machines but for the humans, what would that internet look like? We could have censoring protocols, authoritarian protocols, privacy-maintaining protocols, limited-use protocols, playful protocols, information dense protocols, etc. Maybe people could act based on the protocols in a group. People could also write protocols! I don’t know if the participation is necessarily that empowering or enriching in the way I’m conceptualizing it now (I think there’s some educational or thought-provoking component, but perhaps it isn’t that much different from reading a short story or just reading the protocol itself). Even if I don’t do something with this for this project, I will do something with this. It’s too fun to think about to let go of just yet.

### The structure of the internet graph
- I’m taking discrete right now and working on some graph theory stuff! I’m wondering about the way people are connected - to what and whom and how strongly? What is our distance from each other? How isolated are certain nodes? Finding some way to visualize that or discuss that could be interesting. How is the way people are connected different from or similar to how their machine nodes are connected?

### Decentralized internet (alternative)

### Or: the centralized user
- We talked about large groups of people sharing an account and breaking recommendation systems/tracking at SLAC a few weeks ago. This is cool.

### Targeted advertising done by humans (subvert)

### In a similar vein: being on the creating end of advertising vs the receiving end of advertising (visibility into the process? Making things no one will click?)

### Ads working because they are around “relevant” context or you’re forced to watch them
- Maybe putting “contextually relevant” ads in the physical world (books/signs/built environment)
- An idea I’m not sure about yet- some sort of browser extension that inserts ads (reverse adblock) or maybe makes them look like popups again?
- Browser extension art is sort of interesting because a lot of it is really old and hasn't been updated with browser updates, so a lot of it no longer works. Thinking about the implications, history, and contemporary use of this medium is pretty important to a piece like this and I haven't done too much of that yet. It's also probably a pretty large project for even the span of time of the rest of this class (I don't know how complex this can get but I'm guessing it's going to take a long time to get right).

### Privacy and regulation
- GDPR/GDPR hall of shame?

### Overfitting in personalization (assuming that you want more of what you already have)

### Tracing and understanding the physicality of the internet
