---
layout: post
title: Starting a New Project
---

Proposal: Have a group facebook account with login information sent out through Carpe.

**How do we get people to participate?**

Questions:

Framing

- What do we say about this: post anything vs. use in a specific way
- Continued usage

Outcomes

- What does facebook say about demographics
- Connections of people using account: do they feel connected to each other? How does this feel similar/different from being facebook friends?
How do people use it? More freely? Less freely?


Miranda and I discussed what our shared interests were for this project, and we were both interested in the notion of connectedness- how does the internet connect or disconnect us from each other? We want to explore how social media interacts with our connections and challenge some of Facebook’s paradigms.

We’re interested in having a group of people use a single Facebook account and see how that affects their relationships to each other and to others. Our single biggest concern is getting people to participate; this piece really depends on the active participation of others. We’re not sure if it needs to be earnest participation. We’re trying to figure out what our goals should be and how we should frame this activity. We’re wondering if we can invite the class to participate here- it’s probably the group who would be most willing to participate.

I’m also unsure how to present this. Is the piece the Facebook page itself? I think it certainly could be, but it will change so quickly and its state will be so ephemeral. Is that useful? How should we document the evolution of this account and how should we be presenting that? Does this have any value if people don’t participate? How do we think about that and navigate that?
