---
layout: post
title: Final Project, AI and automation
---

# Hunches:
I’d like to pursue the previous work that I’ve done in the class but also have a few other ideas.
I was thinking about zines and here were my hunches for some:
·         Images of wheelchairs in videogames
·         Donna Haraway and the cyborg manifesto and actual people who are disabled for whom the cyborg “metaphor” is not a metaphor
·         Network protocols become human protocols
·         Galaxy Express 999 and augmentation

#Things I’m interested in regarding AI:
I’m curious how we formulate our own identities and think about who we are (especially in the case of young people!) alongside AI labeling and categorizing us? Will we be made aware of these categories? How will that affect the way we think about ourselves? How is this working now (advertising and “target markets” turning into chosen identifiers and labels? How has this worked in the past?
I’m also really interested in the substitution myth and its implications. Thinking about how tasks have changed to accommodate the needs of automation and change in standards or evaluation metrics to consider automation a success with case studies seems like a useful approach.
The question of how to regulate corporations vs how to enlist them as allies is highly relevant to me.
On the subject of social credit systems, I first heard about Sesame Credit in terms of gamification (on a Youtube channel called Extra Credits that examines games and game design). Questions about psychological manipulation and ethics are particularly insidious when couched in the look and feel of something we recognize as a game.
